---
layout: article
title: My Four E's
date: 2021-5-21
---

In high school, during my first non-restaurant non-retail job, I worked with a guy named Ben. Or more accurately, I putzed around and watched Ben work.

Ben had gray and white hair. He looked surprisingly old to me, as a fellow student under the post-doc research associate who supervised us. But that was normal for [Portland State](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portland_State_University), where the average undergrad was 26, and Ben was a typical grad student. My first semester on campus, I had helped a 42 year old man through introductory linear algebra.

It was mesmerizing to watch Ben because he could not use his arms due to some sort of repetitive strain injury. He spoke softly to his computer while his jutting chin roved around to guide the cursor. <i>"Click, open, write 'for' open paren 'var' space 'i' equals..."</i>

Ben would pause every 20 minutes or so to slowly rise from his seat. He would gingerly place himself on the yoga mat next to our desk space and vigorously stretch, writhing and wriggling all over the floor using foam rollers.

I thought about Ben this morning as I took a break from grinding out [my new book](https://yourmovepublishing.com/#enjoy-chess).

Ben had an interesting
 I thought Ben was a bit unique in his

Ben Schaeffer

something blah blah recording voice on bodies and discomfort and asking the right questions and creative journey and my identity



end with---

if I had to make a twitter bio or a one-liner

Seth is a teacher (recording on this)


I'm an Engineer with the heart of an Educator and the spirit of an Entrepreneur, currently living in Ecuador. Let's break this down.

The engineer part is about trade / profession
also thinking in systems

educator because i like sharing my thoughts and teaching
people person, people pleaser
genetically wired runs in the family

entreprneuerial as adventuror
intellectually curious
disregard status quo, controversial
likes building things, my way, undertaking initiative new enterprises
understanding the world uniquely, living uniquely
