---
layout: article
title: brainstorm
date: 2021-2-9
---

podcast
- who are we upsetting
- how can we get more specific with audience
- key insights, value, before after change



Also how i harness energy and focus it in meaningful way
Over time prioritizing commitments
Not being flaky and in the moment dwayed externally
Higher values and things over money status anything personal benefit
Recording + learned extrovert

feedback balance and personal vision

new things to say, maybe all been said before (advice giving)
words may be out there but whose ears are listening
don't get paralyzed when woken up nothing new to do
talking to folks, you just go, have dinner and say things informed by experience, can talk about your life, new phenomenon even if repeats old themes
being aware of old themes calling out in new context is interesting
then delivery mechanism is important
who are you speaking to, new ears need to hear things, if you're first person at the bus stop outside my window i will hear you whether i like or not, better be good not wasteful, can provide value in reaching folks who haven't heard these things new or old, young / old who don't spend all day reading up to find the exact thing you're trying to say, you can just say it. always will have proliferation, it's ok to participate in that, things that are originals good enough will stay but maybe you're even better, maybe I can synthesize seth in way more useful for future generations, ideas persist even if you don't hear me cite him, maybe new things occassionally...chess books for example is big idea shift rather unique

nothing to say ideas + blogging concept to take 2 years+ to put out random stuff and see pattern, refine and hone

anthropomorphize ghosts otherwordly spiritual beings, wouldn't they want sex more often than to kill people?

running thoughts
1. David Jerison, not taking notes, living life where when ready it's interanlized in small pieces and you don't need reminders, creative or circumstancial knowledge like how to cross the street, understand timing when you do it more
2. having good judgement being measured, slack in ssytem, longterm thinking, social / policy / conversations...no way we can dial in climate change and such, individual level needs work. how i decided what price to pay for land, when to walk / run, migraine management, you develop maturity. physical maybe with overly healthy...tieshun, more mature and large, wonder if his brain developed understanding slack and right investments sooner rather than me being lost
could focus on race to the bottom of being ever tighter, selling someone product for example profile and button clicks to ads, can dial hack for that.
Or can not skate on razor wire tensely, can broad stroke generous, only work with people who really want to work with me, optimize for slack and 10x whales who make difference, really be ready to wait. leverage self moving forward (Cheryl Ward said one thing but did the other). Economics push toward the former; self-actualization and humanity, expression, culture, really push emotionally vs logically in other direction. happens to be religious, mystical, long-term, you don't see day-to-day or nicely ready examples.


3. fourier transform step function oscilating steps, identity shifts and creative commitments, podcast, oscillating physical body and project in unexpected daily twists and turns, over time anticipate natural process...moving to ecuador, book, anything project, oscilatory tendency need to build into outlook
4. how to get thru dips and slouches, stepping out of them with concrete mechanics, little direction change shift, subproblem. close browser tab, get on the new path decision, then get on it, need trigger in that direction and subsequent stack of such triggers. knowing self and world well-enough to project manage in this bite-sized way is really important for creative work, relates to well-measured calibrated slack.

***could focus on race to the bottom of being ever tighter, selling someone product for example profile and button clicks to ads, can dial hack for that.
Or can not skate on razor wire tensely, can broad stroke generous, only work with people who really want to work with me, optimize for slack and 10x whales who make difference, really be ready to wait. leverage self moving forward (Cheryl Ward said one thing but did the other). Economics push toward the former; self-actualization and humanity, expression, culture, really push emotionally vs logically in other direction. happens to be religious, mystical, long-term, you don't see day-to-day or nicely ready examples.***

in order to do somehting good it has to benefit other people, in order to do something great, you also have to want to do it.

Who is Seth? He's a teacher and a leader whose work is inspiring systematic cultural change and showing us how to do the same.

James talking about how he thinks he's not useful or interesting "idk I rambled" -- mark of great podcast host good to get coffe with who's curious and many perspectives. maybe not as practiced as knowing what's useful, who audience is...but maybe just humble in I feel same way about my own uninteresting sometime. But good having someone asking about it, we can share makes us interested in others, can learn together. seeking feedback

journal--this moring drew morning pages, went to sleep, woke at 11a, watched chess, laid in bed, decided to get up and pretty thin felt nice, lots of crap in back of mind about going to quito finding boba, make a little restaurant, shipping, empanadas,

feeling blessed this morning (today!! wow forgot)
perfect trifecta as long as I'm working, building home, waking up early and having complete freedom, very little in life to complain
amazing, grateful
need to keep practicing
+2 this morning, now at 1, maybe 1.5 today
marketing with Mayank (failed)
