---
layout: article
title: 'What am I?'
date: 2019-2-18
---

What do you stand for? If you want to lead people, where would you lead them? What would you want people to say about you? What's the future vision?

If you weren't working on what you do now, what would you be working on? Why are you working on this over that?



--
Don't just live with it, ignore it, and hope you'll eventually be fine. Take action. I highly recommend that you talk with someone who can help you through empathetic listening to help you value yourself. It will be intimate and vulnerable and scary. But when you find the right person, I can tell you from experience that it's magical. They will value you, and you will value you, and then you can re-build the relationships you need with others. That positive cycle has to start somewhere.


Let's understand the goal: to feel un-lonely. What does that even feel like? Maybe we've forgotten. It was that feeling in second grade, before the fateful day when Tommy judged our overalls to look dumb. When we weren't thinking about status at all. When it was a given that we would come home to mom and dad (or one, or neither) and curl up someplace that we belonged. A shoulder or pillow or swing set to cry on.

Our comfort didn't even have to be a human, back when we had better imaginations. We took comfort in stuffed animals and all sorts of inanimate objects. We didn't know if it would get better, but we also didn't preoccupy ourselves with the future. Feeling un-lonely is a feeling of simplicity. It's a feeling of wholeness and fulfillment and emotionally security. Enough to be unconcerned about human relationships.

If we're feeling whole and fulfilled, then who cares what strangers think or say? If they don't like us, that's fine, we have other people who do. If strangers do like us, then OK, sure, cool, but no big deal. If we're not feeling lonely, then it's easier to deal with any situation. We're comfortable in our own skin, and we can focus our brainpower outward at the world, instead of having it constantly directed inward. We're simply unconcerned.



Regain agency. See past the superficial. Don't let lonliness grow and creep and sap you. Trust

no intimacy in the ways you need (or think you need)


Part of the problem is with modern society. We live in a hyper-individualistic world. Families, for example, are completely splintered. Even if we live in the same building, we are often emotionally isolated. There's so much information swirling around us, we spend a lot of time on our own: judging, processing, making comparisons. We constantly question our place, value, and self-worth. Being a little lonely is likely. Being very lonely is commonplace.



--

Commitment is mark of successful people. Focus, no cognitive load. Lots of unilarterlal rules. No meetings. Etc. Seems crazy. Donald Trump. No rules except your own. Warren Buffet. Relentless prioritization. Ruthlessly efficient in words of Ms Duschek. Or just go. Want to run a marathon? Can you walk 5 miles, 10, 20 first? Murakami goes the distance.


def separate: fun little start thing.


thank you brain--mnaking sense out of such complex, noisy world
I've never really been creative. Always just good at being taught.
Started with advantages, accumulated. Never had to exert, develop inner scorecard.
Journey really is more than destination.
experiences give appreciation for details.
brain naturally wired to understand experiences and use them
using things, doing things...not taught in school. anti-taught.
policy-makers fallible just like rest of us, as are educators, etc.
smart is liability when comes from circumstance. means answer key. short cut.
dumb is an asset when overcome. challenges faced down, taken head on.
facing challenges. confronting brain body situation weakness.
dealing with it well. permanently, best you can.
solve, deliver, repeat.
compounds into greatness.
Thank you brain despite 23 years of non-teaching, today I can learn.
Today I can change. Today I can scaffold some small step.
school beats creativity out of you
humans are balls of potential

entrepreneurship, basic life skill: goal setting and goal reaching. really
personally scaffolding
breaking down goals into subgoals
not direct CS correlation.
exposure and terminology
but exposure is vastly different than experience.
not even being at top of hill but seeing a picture of someone else at top of hill.
yes much more informative than nothing, you see the hill, you see the person, you see some context.
but you aren't there. you don't feel it.
and you didn't get there. what does it take, day in and out?
how do you weigh all those experiences and billions of micro-perspectives?
how can you make decisions without that crucial knowledge.
brain biased, but reality confronts us every day when we don't ship. we don't commit.
people who can know and achieve what they want have huge advantage.
can use compounding. hour per day coding projects. wow. such a big difference metacognitively.


when elon musk says theres so much to do and fix
used to be kinda like, really hmmm i can't think of much
thats because we operated from two distinct mindsets.
with the superpower of creativity, elon knows how to build stuff.
has seen that other people really don't as much. ccan't blame them, they arent taught.
but I on other hand operate from superpower of consumption.
if im scavenging on the wealth of humanity, i have to be content with finding things.
instead of solving my problems, i satisfice. i mentally bend myself over backwards to avoid the problem. and i've learned to do it unconsciously. and ill do it until the day i die a sad, mentally hunchbacked death.
for example, hyperloop. driving. it's ok ill just get thru it. traffic sux whatever what can you do. maybe i'll treat myself to netflix and dinner instead of exercising since i don't have the time and I'm mentally drained from frustratingly bending myself over to avoid creating value for other humans.
Elon says no, lets built tunnels. let's make vacuum tubes. what does it actually take? Let's check it out. Uses creative superpower to 1. identify problem 2. decide to solve problem 3. act in small scaffolded ways that compound until 4. problem is actually solved.
now you can be an asshole if you want. fix every little problem to death.
but creative superpowers generally give people experience to understand what's really actually important and not. in certain ways at least.
instead of bickering over selfish little stuff,
instead of complaining no example for selfish little stuff
maybe create new habit, new something to get around it
maybe ask self, hmmm can I come up with an example for selfish little thing?
or go do something else entirely.
learn how to yoyo
read a book
better still, make someone a nice meal. do it weekly.
try coding
write a poem every day
paint a crap painting and sell it
feedback loops.
teaching. teaching is hard.
so much goes into good teaching.
defining learning outcome key. really actually.
not like people who read theory and haven't ever actually taught anything.
--make last sentence more positive.


not creating under pressure is like playing chess without a clock.
at first you're like yes
then you're like no.

i love myself more
im more at peace with myself.
natural fit, quiet? maybe.
learned skill.
definitely.


I don't have a 5 year plan. People ask where do you see yourself. It's great to have this in business. Necessary to communicate, plan, coordinate, direct, measure, learn. But I already know where I need to be and it's right here, right now. I want to exercise, I want to write, I want to connect and re-connect with amazing people who are my friends and people like them. I want to love myself, I want to learn and grow every single day. I want to serve my community and the world. I'm not aiming for a job title or a location or a whatever. Future planning is all about values, my practical present is already aligned.
