---
layout: article
title: 'February 2020'
date: 2020-2-21
---

I engaged in a friend's casual weekend "hackathon" hangout. I paid an overdue visit to family and friends in Wisconsin. I connected and re-connected with people from all over the globe, mostly in San Francisco. I'm currently (suddenly) transitioning between jobs and learning (realtime) the art of negotiation.

A lot has happened in 2020! I'm grateful to be alive and well. And excited to have dealt with enough heavy life lifting for the year such that I can improve the regularity of my monthly publishing cadence, and daily (as yet, hypothetical) exercise routine :p

I'm looking forward to visiting college buddies in Puerto Rico next month, investing in personal spaces (for example, using my kitchen to greater effect), and playing more phone tag with the world.

Thanks everyone for your existence and love and support and trust and readership! Ring me anytime.


## On Humility

I used to think humble meant "meek and unassuming" and that this was a virtuous way to live. It led to some tension between quiet, composed Andy and rambunctious, silly Andy.

Because I wasn't fully at peace with my state of being, I tended to be overly self-aware. I projected insecurity and instability outward. I did things which demonstrated poor calibration and a lack of direction towards what matters.

I remember an interaction with a guy I had just met after graduating high school. I thought he was the coolest thing since iceboxes and I wanted to be friends. I did my normal thing and swiftly received this keen judgment, delivered with piercingly cool, casual vibes:

"Dude, just chill out."

I think I was aggressively (modestly) trying to give away a bag of potato chips so the food wouldn't go to waste. Classic. Lays?

So I was young and immature, so I still am...so what?

Well, the thing is erroneous beliefs tend to manifest in the long run, even if they are only slightly or imperceptibly off&mdash;perhaps invisible&mdash;in the short run. Thank you Eric Li for the valuable data point and guidance at prez scholars 2014 that has manifested six years later :)

It has recently become much more clear to me that an effective definition of humble treats a meek and unassuming demeanor as orthogonal to true humility. Humility is really about epistemic confidence and maintaining a healthy dose of self-doubt. It's not about speaking loudly or softly.

(Please for the love of all that's good and holy, loud talkers be mindful of those around you.)

I have found myself surprised that it's OK to speak my mind, fully, and even to do so a bit overmuch to ensure that the points come accross clearly. And to intersperse fun fillings and empathetic listening voids to keep people engaged in the conversation, including myself! Because I default to meek and unassuming, I have to practice being direct and assertive and confidence-projecting and a bit more rock-like.

Conflict avoidance and humility are very separate mentally, and confusingly similar behaviorally.

True humility is acted out over time. It shows in how much you think you're right, and how much you're actually wrong.

It remains a good idea to lean towards thinking you're wrong, but ending up as being right. It's chess, poker, [engineering](https://overcast.fm/+L0YXHOgJQ){:target="_blank"}.

Something something black swans are undervalued by definition, don't want to have bias, be under-biased not over-confident, blah blah blah.

## On Adulting

At this point, I feel that I’ve gotten the gist of the contours of how this all works, adulting.

This is a dangerous point.

My original goal upon graduating MIT was to have a 2-3 year “real life business school” seeing that traditional school was bad fit for me and not very impactful overall for my personal growth.

It is now officially [two years later](/img/mit-diploma.png){:target="_blank"}, and I'm pleased to say, mission accomplished!

One way to view the past two years would be
- a year and a half of bumming around watching anime and doing random impulsive things
- until I realized I was being stupid...
- Then a half year of real people work
- working a bit harder than the average beaver in order to catch up.

A more generous way to view the past two years would be
- a patient exploration of my interests along with
- a patient exploration of the world and adult life within it
- culminating in a vocation and balanced existence (primed for further sustainable growth)
- enabled by fortuitous circumstances and a beautiful first 22 years of life.







The danger is in conflating

what is a plateau, or a dip, and what is global forward progress

## On School

best school teaches you to learn how to learn
also have goals and act towards them
framework
adult you have goals and you devote resources to learning methodically, you already have learned how to learn, basics, now refine
in same way, best teacher / school is one you can query long after their gone, that is within you.
we under-value human intelligence which every day grows...instead of superintelligence humanist within me tells me that this is the real miracle...at least for now.

do I want to be ahead of my time, or firmly rooted in my time?


## On Work

A year ago, I thought that I had enough work experience. I thought, hey I have tons of skills. I can both recognize and achieve good work. I have full confidence in my ability to take on any challenge.

So I should be able to create my own job, to make my own way, and not have to rely on an employer.





## On Social Media and Google

I have no Facebook, no LinkedIn. I have never had a snapchat nor insta. And I currently plan to keep my sole online presence here, under my full control (and responsibility).

A colleague recently Googled me and asked about the search results. To snapshot everything in one place, here's my understanding of what the internet currently says about me:







## On Priorities

In my most recent [post](https://andytrattner.com/decade-reflections-2020.html){:target="_blank"}, I stated 3 objectives for 2020:
1. Being healthy, mindful, present.
2. Doing a great job at work.
3. Shipping side projects to learn and grow technically.

To re-focus and re-phrase, I'd like to bundle the last point into the "health" part of the first. Learning and growing and creating (3) is a huge priority for me, but it isn't limited to the technical, as stated above.

Instead, I'm OK just focusing on the first two for now, and making tradeoffs between and among them. Overall health therefore includes physical, emotional, social, etc. Basically, health is my barometer term for how close to optimally sustainable my current lifestyle is.

This is probably the best way for me to phrase what I hope is a virtuous cycle of two personal goals for the year:
1. Being healthy, mindful, present.
2. Doing a great job at work.

More broadly, this shift comes from some nuances recently grasped.

engage fully, love etc.

de-prioritizing social and romantic enagements
saving and investing
just need these things to be more purposeful








#####


I have found myself in an "attractor cycle" of self-reinforcing beliefs and viewpoints

https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2017/02/28/a-brief-history-of-existential-terror/









This was partially true, insidiously. In that I am capable, and have been. This is what allowed me to go to a competitive college and do well. Ultimately to join the elite team at Scale, passing the interview process and getting an offer as the sixth member of the cops team. After failing a lot at other things, like a year ago vaguely trying to teach chess in St Louis not seeing how this would fit into any long-term plan and therefore being a bad employee at an even easier role. Not well-aligned.

But ultimately wrong, making 2 fundamentally incorrect assumptions:
It’s not about good work in itself, but the planning and prioritization of the work. What does alignment mean, look like, how to focus and show up with the right conditions and emotional state to achieve success! Understanding how to invest time, where. What tables to sit at (in poker speak). Actually understanding what constitutes the game. What is the game? fully.
I needed for many reasons (including the above to learn to correct it) and practical necessities to have a real job (as most people do) before striking out on my own.



But part of my newfound humility and learning / growth mentality is I see how much further I have to go. I can dive much deeper beyond exposure to get true expertise at delivering fully. The outcome metrics for this are winning specific promotion milestones, ultimately tied to helping the company make money (revenue / cutting costs),
Getting direct reports / rising in management
Getting a raise

To do this, I have to ship not only great work, but great work that’s impactful. Then market myself a bit to demonstrate the impact and make others care. Provide true value and tell a story about it.

Then I’ll be pretty complete and the next learning milestones will be clear. Possibly not obtainable within the company. But I’ll be well-positioned to leave, go elsewhere, or have people within Scale begging me to stay and bending over backwards to help me do continued good work (big big raise, new initiatives, etc). I’ll be recognized as a leader.

But first I have to become one. That’s the journey of 2020 at work for me. And it’s a truly pleasurable one.



To add
Marketing - this is why I love seth godin, complete picture: 1. skills/value 2. Marketing






Colleague at work apparently googled me to learn more, and was curious about what he discovered. Given I have no social media nor linkedin, here for reference are some illustrative past data points from the first 10 pages of google search that the internet might provide someone who has no prior knowledge of me, other than my name:
NWC magazine, chess-related articles
https://cardinaltimes.org/2250/news/the-final-match/: me beating Clemen and pushing for better people systems
Current: https://www.milibrary.org/events/chess-class-beginners-and-intermediate-players
Things relating to Lincoln High School or Nicolet High School, early academic achievements
Dropping out of stupid rat races: https://schools.oregonlive.com/achievers/2014/Lincoln-High-School/Andrew-Trattner/
Running https://blog.ed.gov/2017/07/the-ability-to-inspire/
https://ntrs.nasa.gov/search.jsp?R=20160001341
Mental health, Lean On Me, fixing up MIT
“Trailblazers of tomorrow” - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GW830f54T2I
Quora answers - https://www.quora.com/profile/Andy-Trattner
https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/college-game-plan/mit-students-use-their-smarts-create-texting-hotline-prevents-suicide-n528796
My origin story
I’m genetically
Driven
Kind
Smart
Impulsive
Neurotic / observant / controlling / worried about image
Prone to taking away control from others / manipulating for my own value system
Self-aware
Experience makes you converge to truth
That is true intelligence
More experience / data = more intelligence
I’m taught by life-altering experience
Facades are suboptimal strategy, genuine wins in long run
I lived with family on both sides of the tragedy who compared me to my father, in the worst ways to emotionally project and abuse me for their own selfish ends. I learned both about the worst impacts on others / society regarding the negatives behaviors I’m predisposed to, and also the ways in which I am or am not perceived and self-perceived.
When you live with someone who hates you, or hates themselves, it’s very educational. And you learn that most horrific things people do to each other are actually tolerable.
Sure go ahead and cite
http://www.paulgraham.com/schlep.html
Sam Altman
It’s ironic that the post has a major contributor listed who is part of the place I’m leaving to
https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2017/02/28/a-brief-history-of-existential-terror/
It’s funny because a contributor to the article referenced
I’ve had more experience than anyone at Scale regarding this, for life...maybe other people have thoughts about work/career...but life I understand. And life is what we ultimately want to be good.
Humans are important. How we treat one another is important. I have developed perspectives on fairness and what’s actually tolerable.
I have maybe hidden from this at times, and learned what’s in my head versus reality.
I tolerate people fucking with me, but I don’t tolerate violations of human rights of others. Tyler Cowen’s flip side of the coin. Like Wendy. And myself to some extent.
About my mom and dad - https://murderpedia.org/male.T/t/trattner-stephen.htm








Adding more 1/18/20:

This morning, after an energetic stroll around the park, I felt the urge to keep walking, digesting, healing, relaxing, moving forward. Went into my building thinking to go up the stairs, to go the length of each narrow 40 foot hallway, and just see what was around me. I knew there were at least 3 stories, my having never gone one step above the second where I live, and it was time after a few months living here to see the rest.

The third floor was much the same. There was a bit more paint on the stair handrails, the carpet was less dusty. But no real difference. Then I ascended the stairs to the fourth floor except the stairs turned to wood and the stairwell ended in a locked door. Unlocking the door, I found myself on a rooftop. And with a great view. And with neighboring buildings a short and easy climb away. Going three buildings over, looking out to both private courtyards, windows, and the street out front, I was struck by this whole new perspective...dumbfounded that I had been completely oblivious to this wonderful little hangout spot the whole time. I would have totally come up here each Saturday morning to call my father. I would have totally encouraged visitors and friends to have a drink on the roof instead of sitting cross-legged on my tiny slice of floor in the dark corner of this building (it’s not bad at all).

And there was a garden, some lawn chairs, a nice wooden platform bridge between two rooftops, what a paradisical lounge looking over the city! I’m reminded of this week, where I did some small things that ended up showing me a whole new world. By simply pushing very slightly on the corners of what I thought possible, the topics I was willing to discuss, by embracing and bracing myself against the discomfort of novelty and challenge, I contributed simultaneously to the world at large, my job / company, and my personal growth, knowledge, perspective...in tangible and life-changing, mind-changing ways. I asked for a big new framing, a monumental raise, and it was in hindsight as easy as taking the stairs to explore the third floor. Giving myself permission to go beyond, to try something that’s not in the rulebook and certainly won’t harm anybody. But that leads to outsized impact, a shift in power and the world I live within.... To enter a whole new world.

I’m not going back down to my sheltered cave for long. I can’t. I’m a new person. What a great growthful week! And I recognize it and can navigate more towards this kind of awakening and thought pattern as a result. Success compounds. A good chess player is always lucky.




Also something about the importance of relationships and trust and resources. Can easily enter little real estate partnership with Sam Berman...in fact we've always talked about it in some form. Separating skills and strengths and weaknesses. Leveraging self. I can contribute resources and effort and it's easy to pay $15k to invest in something that's worthwhile.







Orig:

Super grateful to be working at Scale. What a privilege. It’s very exciting, a personal growth journey and rewarding in the work that’s engaging and challenging and good fit for me and decent hours I’m able to craft alongside an exceptional team. Who care. What a dream come true. Dream job.

The difference between me now and me a year ago is the biggest difference I used to believe that I had enough work experience .

I thought, hey I have tons of skills, and I can recognize / achieve good work. Truly good, thorough work. From all the prior experience I have. So I should be able to create my own job, to make my own way, and not have to rely on an employer.

This was partially true, insidiously. In that I am capable, and have been. This is what allowed me to go to a competitive college and do well. Ultimately to join the elite team at Scale, passing the interview process and getting an offer as the sixth member of the cops team. After failing a lot at other things, like a year ago vaguely trying to teach chess in St Louis not seeing how this would fit into any long-term plan and therefore being a bad employee at an even easier role. Not well-aligned.

But ultimately wrong, making 2 fundamentally incorrect assumptions:
It’s not about good work in itself, but the planning and prioritization of the work. What does alignment mean, look like, how to focus and show up with the right conditions and emotional state to achieve success! Understanding how to invest time, where. What tables to sit at (in poker speak). Actually understanding what constitutes the game. What is the game? fully.
I needed for many reasons (including the above to learn to correct it) and practical necessities to have a real job (as most people do) before striking out on my own.

At this point, I’ve gotten the gist of the contours of how this all works, adulting. My original goal upon graduating MIT was to have a 2-3 year “real life business school” seeing that traditional school was bad fit for me and not very impactful overall. Mission accomplished!

But part of my newfound humility and learning / growth mentality is I see how much further I have to go. I can dive much deeper beyond exposure to get true expertise at delivering fully. The outcome metrics for this are winning specific promotion milestones, ultimately tied to helping the company make money (revenue / cutting costs),
Getting direct reports / rising in management
Getting a raise

To do this, I have to ship not only great work, but great work that’s impactful. Then market myself a bit to demonstrate the impact and make others care. Provide true value and tell a story about it.

Then I’ll be pretty complete and the next learning milestones will be clear. Possibly not obtainable within the company. But I’ll be well-positioned to leave, go elsewhere, or have people within Scale begging me to stay and bending over backwards to help me do continued good work (big big raise, new initiatives, etc). I’ll be recognized as a leader.

But first I have to become one. That’s the journey of 2020 at work for me. And it’s a truly pleasurable one.



To add
Marketing - this is why I love seth godin, complete picture: 1. skills/value 2. Marketing
On humility: not being meek and unassuming, orthogonal. direct/assertive fine, even good, especially for meek unassuming. Humility is epistemic and acted out over time. How much you think you’re right, and how much you’re wrong. Lean towards thinking wrong but being right. Black swans undervalued by definition. Don’t have bias. Be under-biased, not over-confident.




Day-of Feb 1 finishing touches and updates:

Colleague at work apparently googled me to learn more, and was curious about what he discovered. Given I have no social media nor linkedin, here for reference are some illustrative past data points from the first 10 pages of google search that the internet might provide someone who has no prior knowledge of me, other than my name:
NWC magazine, chess-related articles
https://cardinaltimes.org/2250/news/the-final-match/: me beating Clemen and pushing for better people systems
Current: https://www.milibrary.org/events/chess-class-beginners-and-intermediate-players
Things relating to Lincoln High School or Nicolet High School, early academic achievements
Dropping out of stupid rat races: https://schools.oregonlive.com/achievers/2014/Lincoln-High-School/Andrew-Trattner/
Running https://blog.ed.gov/2017/07/the-ability-to-inspire/
https://ntrs.nasa.gov/search.jsp?R=20160001341
Mental health, Lean On Me, fixing up MIT
“Trailblazers of tomorrow” - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GW830f54T2I
Quora answers - https://www.quora.com/profile/Andy-Trattner
https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/college-game-plan/mit-students-use-their-smarts-create-texting-hotline-prevents-suicide-n528796
My origin story
I’m genetically
Driven
Kind
Smart
Impulsive
Neurotic / observant / controlling / worried about image
Prone to taking away control from others / manipulating for my own value system
Self-aware
Experience makes you converge to truth
That is true intelligence
More experience / data = more intelligence
I’m taught by life-altering experience
Facades are suboptimal strategy, genuine wins in long run
I lived with family on both sides of the tragedy who compared me to my father, in the worst ways to emotionally project and abuse me for their own selfish ends. I learned both about the worst impacts on others / society regarding the negatives behaviors I’m predisposed to, and also the ways in which I am or am not perceived and self-perceived.
When you live with someone who hates you, or hates themselves, it’s very educational. And you learn that most horrific things people do to each other are actually tolerable.
Sure go ahead and cite
http://www.paulgraham.com/schlep.html
Sam Altman
It’s ironic that the post has a major contributor listed who is part of the place I’m leaving to
https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2017/02/28/a-brief-history-of-existential-terror/
It’s funny because a contributor to the article referenced
I’ve had more experience than anyone at Scale regarding this, for life...maybe other people have thoughts about work/career...but life I understand. And life is what we ultimately want to be good.
Humans are important. How we treat one another is important. I have developed perspectives on fairness and what’s actually tolerable.
I have maybe hidden from this at times, and learned what’s in my head versus reality.
I tolerate people fucking with me, but I don’t tolerate violations of human rights of others. Tyler Cowen’s flip side of the coin. Like Wendy. And myself to some extent.
About my mom and dad - https://murderpedia.org/male.T/t/trattner-stephen.htm
You also just never know. Everything I write here could be a lie. Reality is very strange thing, in the end. Best to enjoy it, and smile, and be kind.
Overall takeaways
I’m uniquely good at identifying holes in human systems and proposing solutions, driving those, leading those
I’m frustrated at Scale because I see the problem...but am not in a position to fix it. Could fix it if bandwidth constraints were relaxed upon me.
Leaving is acceptable if company doesn’t want to prioritize this now. When? More than 6 months, I don’t want the equity from those months.
"I believe as the doctors do that something triggered Steve to do what he did. (Trattner) has never done well with conflict, and it built up inside of him and he lost control. Something happened in that argument that was entirely foreign to him. This happened all so fast. I don't think he wanted to believe he had just killed his wife. He couldn't from a psychological level. I don't think his mind fully grasped what happened. He is a pacifist. This is a person who doesn't kill a chipmunk in his back yard."
If someone is hitting you and beating you - you are going to want them to stop," Wolfgram said. "This is just an example of Mr. Trattner's lack of empathy. His actions were selfish. His actions deprieved the children of their mother. There is no question to the severity of this; and who is responsible for this? Stephen Trattner is, 100 percent.
My selfish actions predisposed, but I direct them towards justice
My worldview of justice is by experience more attuned than others. Therefore I do think it’s just to speak with authority and try to change things
And to protest with all my might when I don’t perceive a good-faith effort to meet these
I can recognize good-faith efforts very well, based on past data
NLP team talks about past months the nuances killing things
Sure nuance, but I disagree and think it’s the people strategy that’s not working
If we went onsite to OpenAI for a week and ran the acquisition program by them, they would be overjoyed. We could do 15 minute interviews with us, at first. That’s commitment on our end, but we don’t know when or how to show it because we don’t have the confidence the cohones to go out and commit to the bet.
We aren’t well-calibrated to risk and decisions.
Product risk of doing extremely well on the task is so much higher than people risk and showing your work
The emotional labor isn’t technical excellence
It’s sales and marketing to understand and speak to someone’s needs
To do something seemingly dumb, product market fit strategy...how do you fit a product to a market, actually you give people what they want
How about product being job and customer being your employee
I’m bad at making money, good at making people things work.
Want a head of people? OK here you go.
-
Scale
“Our leadership team is inexperienced.”
Guideposts are articles and best guesses.
I’m not guessing here, I’m triggered by my sense of morality. It’s probably the only thing I feel strongly about in the universe. Not death. Not others’ perceptions. But justice. “The Arc of the Moral Universe Is Long, But It Bends Toward Justice” - MLK
I hate lip service towards how are you doing?
It’s bullshit.
I’m proactive now. Relative to most people, but still cautious and slow and doubtful due to innate disposition.
My dad started with the land. It took him ten years, but he found the land. The result is pure excellence. Talks about the architects vision and what not. It was my dad as the golf nerd who created all that.
I have had time to process. 14 years of experience with dealing with trauma.


Chess was surprising. I have competence, but I choose not to use it to compete, rather to teach and engage with others in positive sum ways. Purely altruistic human. Same with Presidential Scholars Program. I have experience running things well.

Ask the people in doordash war room who I trained. Have they ever been so well-trained / supported / managed? No. Not at Scale. Results speak for themselves. I did this while low-performing and near-depressed...because of thinking about Scale.

Lean On Me, work on human psychology and forecasting, reading and thinking about things gives me unique perspectives on humans and human systems. Also how trying to build automated marketplace solutions platforms is inherently hard and leads to low quality. The solution to achieve highest quality is automation and tools sure, but especially those designed to augment the human intelligence and elevate that aspect of the worker. Not automation to simply replace them. Empathy for the person you’re training. Giving them access to tools they need. And coordinating the workforce especially. Not just trying to get replaceable parts. Seth Godin thoughts






## A poetic afterthought, written first

If I died today I would probably give all my resources to my sister, Wendy. And if I had to have a tombstone of sorts, I might ask MIT to put a little thingy in a public place...perhaps name, birth / death year, and a blurb:

"Take care of your body, mind, and soul. Listen fully before speaking, as thoughtful scientist. Love everything with all your heart; trust and empower others. Raise the bar; expectations will shape your reality. Dance with the fear. Grow and enjoy."

The scary part is that I am dying today. The exciting part, the part that I'm grateful for, is that it's happening slowly enough for me and others to enjoy it. The funny part is that none of my quoted sentences are original.
