---
layout: article
title: Breath
date: 2021-3-25
category: book reviews
---

Did you know we've started evolving backwards? 

Yeah, turns out our brain is too big and everything else in our head gets squish-squashed. For example, our throat and sinuses and nasal pathways, all that jazz. 

It kind of sucks. But not very well, so we've started mouth-breathing a lot more. Big mistake; use your nose!

"Modern research is showing us that making even slight adjustments to the way we inhale and exhale can jump-start athletic performance; rejuvenate internal organs; halt snoring, asthma, and autoimmune disease; and even straighten scoliotic spines. None of this should be possible, and yet it is."

Another fascinating book I failed to finish, this time further along in part 2 after zipping through a solid 80+ pages in a rapturous sitting.

When reading, I was constantly trying to balance the hilariously nasty [Amazon reviews](https://smile.amazon.com/Breath-New-Science-Lost-Art/dp/0735213615#customerReviews) ("incoherent...much BS...everything you never wanted to learn about breathing") and my friend [Reiman](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6kweSWXApNgidRwnKKe15p?si=YgxGbJe0TTmLkddRMChCbg)'s bonafide endorsement ("I live by this book, it changed my life"). I started with the latter and persisted as long as I could before I ended up resonating with the former. 

Just know that you're getting into one of those story + science mashups, like _[Quiet](https://smile.amazon.com/Quiet-Power-Introverts-World-Talking/dp/0307352153/)_ on the introvert / extrovert spectrum or [_Why We Sleep_](https://smile.amazon.com/Why-We-Sleep-Unlocking-Dreams/dp/1501144324/) on the power of that mysterious thing we do every day. I'd definitely recommend those first. Sleep is truly great, and even though I wasn't super impressed with the idea organization of _Quiet_, the book lends itself to a beautifully meandering introspective read.

In comparison, _Breath_ is a slight notch down in writing quality, a tad more fanatical, and more sparse on the mind-blowing insights due to its slightly repetitive focus.

The book will be relevant and potentially revelatory if you have asthma, sleep apnea, or any kind of nose / jaw / throat condition. Apparently, almost all of us do.

And even if you don't, you can still be engaged learning more about breathing. Through this book, I certainly have grown much more appreciative and mindful of my nose.

_Note to self. "Breath" = breth, noun. "Breathe" = breeeth, verb._
