---
layout: article
title: 'ideas'
date: 2019-3-2
---

https://kk.org/thetechnium/1000-true-fans/

--

fascinating: https://kk.org/thetechnium/the-post-produc/
world will change dramatically, but yes economic growth i don't think so as much
just not as much left.
fragmentation and isolation and more long tail but growth maybe not so much.
consequences? not sure...

--
https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/life-weeks.html holy shit
https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/12/the-tail-end.html fukkk
--

wendy getting into MIT.
getting into poetry classes etc.

--

handshake overview and why it's great for whom
early adopters focus?


--
math is beautiful: https://www.meltingasphalt.com/interactive/going-critical/
--



5/3
driving back from Wisco, listening to Joe Rogan, Sam Harris, Roger Penrose, Ben Shapiro. Mad respect to all of them. Adults. Who work hard. Have wisdom to share.
Inspired to act as an adult.
Recognize I'm fundamentally lazy.
Have accomplishments, my resume is entirely hard work plus circumstance, and hard work because of circumstance. But have been, ages 17-23 consciously lazy, purposefully forgiving myself sins. Being moral arbitrator as I have no right to be, or no good reason to be.
Decided post-graduation to figure it out, put myself in nontraditionally self-reliant situations out of context to force responsibility. But haven't been responsible, still exhibit (and even more have developed further) compusively bad and lazy proclivities. Non-creative, letting Resistance win.
Now, I have to be an adult. I have to fight the Resistance and do the hard work of living morally good life, of finding ways to enjoy work. Of building value and finding purpose in suffering instead of avoiding it. Being religious about this, and finding spiritual focus without stress but with constant betterment and adversity. Kicking neurotic behaviors and supplanting them with good (hard) ones. Being an adult. Acting with intention, and thoughtful rule-setting with reasonable goals. No alcohol. No sugar. Don't cheat to the greatest extent possible. Push the limits. Comfort-zone pushing is not running away, it's staying put stoically and enduring hardships, self-imposed or otherwise reasonable for long-term overall good. Leading others to do the same, starting from a personal place as opposed to external. Being practical and excercising sound judgment. Lezgoooo get pumped for life in this way.
Putting my time to good use. Valuing it. Increasing the value of my time. Here's the baseline.
